Regression Test Instructions V0.1
---------------------------------

This collection of test suites is still being developed.  Some of
the subdirectories of the regression/ directory have not yet been
merged into the script responsible for running the tests.  Future
versions of this collection will merge them and provide increased
functionality for running the tests:

All the tests that are currently merged into the collection with the
exception of the AIM3 tests and the manufacturing memory tests can
be run from a single script -- runall.  The script takes an optional
argument and a single parameter.  The optional argument, -a, tells
runall to run all suites in parallel instead of serially as it
normally does.  The parameter specifies the number of iterations
to use for each test suite.

Example: % runall -a 25	# run tests in suite in parallel 25  iterations

The runall script will put the test output in a subdirectory of the
regression/ directory called Report/ and name the test output after
the name of the test suite subdirectory with the suffix .out added.

In the runall script, there is a line beginning with SUBTESTS=.  This
specifies which test suites will be run by the script.  Edit the line
to run the particular subset of test suites you are interested in.
Remember that if you run X tests, you will need to set your DISPLAY
environment variable appropriately before invoking runall.

After the tests have completed, you can generate a test report summary
using the genreport script.  It will look through the test output files
in the Report/ directory and count the number of errors it finds in
each one.

The AIM3 test suite is currently working but not fully integrated.
To run this test, change into the aim3/ directory and execute the
multiuser program.  You will be prompted with some test parameters
and then the test will begin execution.

The manufacturing memory test suite is currently working but not
fully integrated.  To run it, change into the mfg/ directory and
invoke the mem program as follows:

	% mem -aimrwv -s <#>m

Where <#> is the number of megabytes of memory you want allocated
for the tests.  The memory tests run forever, so when you are ready
for them to stop running, type 'killall mem' to halt the tests.

The next version of runall will incorporate the above two tests and
will provide a more flexible method of running tests.  It will take
a run file as input which will specify which tests to run and how
to run them.  To get the latest version of the tests, grab the file
homegrown:~billd/regression.tar.Z

Send questions, comments, or suggestions to billd.

- Bill Dorsey
