Starting System...  (1)
  Displayed once bootmaster arbitration has completed.  Indicates that the
  master processor has started up correctly and is capable of communicating
  with the system controller.

EBUS diags 2..
  Displayed immediately before we run the secondary EBUS diagnostics.  The
  secondary EBUS diagnostics stress the interrupt logic and the EBUS. 

PD Cache test..
  Displayed immediately before we run the primary data cache test.
 
Building stack..
  Displayed before we attempt to set up the cache as the stack.  If this
  is the last message displayed, there is probably something wrong with
  the master processor.

Jumping to MAIN
  Displayed before we switch into the C main subroutine. 
 
Initing Config Info
  Displayed before we attempt to do initial hardware probing and set up
  the everest configuration information data structure.  In this phase,
  we simply read out the SYSCONFIG register and set the evconfig fields
  to rational default values.

Setting timeouts..
  Displayed before we attempt to write to the various board timeout registers.
  Everest requires that all of the boards be initialized with consistent
  timeout values, and that these timeout values be written before we actually
  do reads or writes to the boards (we're safe so far because we have only
  touched configuration registers; this will change when we start talking to
  IO4 devices). 

Initing master IO4..
  Displayed before we attempt to do basic initialization for all of the 
  IO4's in the system.  Basic initialization consists of writing the 
  large and small window registers, setting the endianess, setting up
  error interrupts, clearing the IBUS and EBUS error registers, and 
  examining the IO adapters.

Initing EPC...
  Displayed before we do the first writes to the master EPC.  This routine
  clears the EPC error registers and takes all EPC devices out of reset.

Initing EPC UART
  Displayed when we first enter the UART configuration code. 

Initing UART Chan B
  Displayed before we begin initializing UART chan B's control registers.

Initing UART Chan A
  Displayed before we begin initializing UART chan A's control registers.

Reading inventory..
  Displayed before we attempt to read the system inventory out the IO4 
  NVRAM.  If the inventory is invalid or we can't read it for some reason,
  we initialize the inventory fields with appropriate default values.

Running BIST.. (2)
  Displayed before we run the memory hardware's built-in self test.   

Configuring memory.. (3)
  Displayed before we actually configure the banks into a legitimate 
  .

Testing memory.. (3)
  Printed before we start executing the memory post-configuration tests.
  These tests simply check that memory was configured correctly.
 
Testing Bus Tags..
  Checks and initializes the CC bus tags, which are used by the CC chip
  to determine whether it should pass a coherency transaction on to a
  particular processor.

Writing CFGINFO..
  Displayed before we try writing the everest configuration information 
  into main memory.

Initing MPCONF blk..
  Displayed before we initialize the everest MP configuration blocks
  for all of the processors.

Testing S Cache...
  Displayed before we begin testing the secondary cache on all of the
  processors.
 
S Cache passed.

Checking slaves...
  Displayed when we check each slave processor to determine whether it
  is alive and whether it passed its diagnostics.

Loading IO4 PROM.. (4)
  Displayed when we download the IO4 PROM from the IO4 flash proms into
  main memory.

Entering IO4 PROM.. (5)
  Displayed when we first jump into the IO4 PROM.

Sizing caches...
  Displayed when we execute the cache sizing code.  


Initing environment
  Displayed when we try reading the NVRAM variables out of the 
  IO4 PROM NVRAM.

Reiniting caches..
  Displayed when we recheck the caches.

Initing saio...
  Displayed when we begin initializing the stand-alone I/O routines.

Initing SCSI... (5)
  Displayed when we begin initializing the WD95 SCSI driver.

Initing UART... (5)
  Displayed when we initialize the IO4 EPC UART.

Initing graphics.. (5)
  Displayed when we initialize the graphics device (if any).

Starting slaves...
  Displayed when we kick the slave processors into the IO4 PROM
  slave loop.

Startup complete.
  Displayed when we've finished initializing everything and we're
  ready to display the main menu.


NOTES:
  1.  This message is currently "EVEREST SYSTEM."  This will change
      in the next release.

  2.  This message currently reads "Checking memory..." This will change
      in the next release.

  3.  This message will be added to the memory code in the next release.

  4.  This message will be added in the next release.

  5.  This message will be added in the next release. 
