
3/15/97 -- for 007-2167-004 comments by fergie

(-003 was done by Renate and was for the S/W only 
--not the printed version-- that included 3D style)

This version is for the printed book that will 
include 3D style.

Update to fix figures in Ch 14 and close bugs 
against those figs.

Cindy S. is production person
Pete is engineer this go-round

README for 007-2167-002
Indigo Magic User Interface Guidelines
(Style Guide)

Update for 6.2-banyan
	close bugs
	improve/fix figs
	add new stuff
	fixed figs 

cstief fixed a lot of figs in photoshop. We hope to 
print in color.


Converted all except TABS to 3.4 IPtemplate on 11/8/95.
Replaced 'Argument' w/ 'CmdLineOpt'

pete is engr as is galdes

List of reviewers:

pete 
Betsy Zeller betsy
Deb Galdes galdes
Mike Mohageg michaelm
Mike Portuesi portuesi
Rob Myers rob
Dave Story story
Susan Dahlberg susan
Delle Maxwell
Rob Myers
Chandra
Bob Miller -FAM- kbob
Kim -Schemes-

Cindy (cstief) is prod person
Pat Cianci is the buyer/planner for this part number.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

For moosehead (post banyan):

revisit fig 3-1 

fold in 3D style (Mike M/renata writing)
note from deb:

From:    Deb Galdes <galdes@bobcat>
Date:    Sun Jan 21,  3:58pm -0800
Renate,

I think that we should drop the stuff on the 2 vs. 3 button mouse and
just let interested readers find the mouse information in the
appropriate section of the IMUIG (chapter 1, I think).  In the IMUIG we
assumed that users would be interacting with applications using a 3
button mouse because we assumed that these apps would all run on SGI
systems.  Now we have a few apps (and more coming soon) that run on
PCs.

I think that we should still assume the three button mouse, leave it
out of the 3D section since there is nothing specific to 3D about it,
and if we do someday need to discuss a 2 button mouse, then put it in a
section that deals with "running your Indigo Magic application on a
PC..."  (I can feel Pete cringing at the thought! :-) )

*********

This file provides some information about the Beta draft of the 3D
Style Guide. It mostlyn discusses some file organization issues,
illustrations.

1) Files and folders
I've prepared the 3D Style Guide as a book (3Dstyle.book) containing
these files:  

3Dintro.doc
3DstyleTOC.doc
3Dview.doc
select.doc
3Dmanip.doc

I'm also going to add an index. 

The intro is almost the same as the intro of the IMUG, I've added a
section on the 3 new chapters. The first real chapter (3Dview.doc) has
a hardwired chapter number. 

Note that I haven't backed up the files onto Bonnie 'cause I wasn't
sure where they would go (I'm doing a tape 3 times a week and I'm
being backed up remotely).


2) Illustrations
There are two types of pictures: 

a. Frame line art, prepared by me, needs to be done more professionally
but will do the trick for now. 

b. Screen shots

I've done one or two screen shots using Annotator (you need the
version on sphere to get the viewing fixtures in chapter 12)

All other screen shots were done using a set of special programs that
Mike Mohageg has. Basically, these programs show only the manipulators
for one kind of manipulation at a time; this results in clearer
pictures. 

Here's a message I sent to Mike and his answer: 

On Mar 7,  2:24pm, Renate Kempf wrote:
> Subject: manipulation applications
> Hi Michael,
>
> Remember the nifty little "only one kind of manipulator" applications I was
> running to make the screen shots? Do they still exists? I'd like to make sure
> Wendy can use them if she wants to, for all that, there are one or two shots
I
> feel compelled to update before I let this out of my hand.
>
> I used to run these by doing an rlogin into titanic because I didn't have the
> most recent copy of Inventor....
>
> Let me know...
> Thanks
>
> Renate

Yup, there still there!

titanic:/usr/tmp/forMichaelm

Then run either rotOnly, scaleOnly, or translateOnly.

--Mike

I've placed the originals into the /orig directory and  converted most
of the illustrations to .bw files using a Makefile 
that is in the same directory as the book files; it wasn't easy to
come up with color combinations that resulted in good contrast. A
white background works well but is not possible for the scaling
pictures. 

If there was a series of pictures I have at times added straigt lines
using FrameMaker drawing tools. 

March 1996
Renate
