4/24/97 Comments by Helen Vanderberg

- Added chapter on Unified Name Service (new capability in IRIX 6.5)

- Updated the chapter on Network Management in accordance with suggestions 
to use the O'Reilly books as references, and include only the differences 
that occur in the IRIX system.

- Updated sendmail chapter

- Added procedure on password-protected ftp.




9/11/96 Comments by Pam Sogard

Added section on IP aliasing (new capability). Fixed bugs against
the book and added changes recommended by Vernon Schryver (including
updating 'ping' examples for new output format). Updated network examples
so addresses are in compliance with the ranges specified in SGI Style 
Guide (see "Network Addresses"). 

Did not make the changes suggested by Arthur Evans. These changes would
have required more engineering resources than were available for this 
revision (IRIX 6.4).


1995 Comments by Arthur Evans:

Things to do to the network administration book:

- Example configuration in DNS/BIND chapter should be changed. Ideally, 
it should be replaced with an entirely new, realistic example. At the 
least, it should be changed to use the same domain name (currently 
salad.com) as the rest of the examples. 

- Could use a section on troubleshooting routing.

- sendmail chapter should be replaced by a chapter on our sendmail 
configuration utility, configmail. (The current chapter contains some
information about configmail. Robert Stephens should be able to tell
us what material we need to save, and what material we need to cut out.)

- The book could use more troubleshooting information. I think a section
on troubleshooting routing (and for that matter, more information on 
setting up routing) would be helpful, especially for people setting up
SLIP and PPP connections.

- The sections in Chapter 2 that discuss the Internet, the domain
system, and the Network Information Centers should be reviewed. (In
particular, make sure all the FTP and WWW servers listed still
work--seems like the NICs are going through a period of change right
now, with the world so new and all.) Also, the discussion of domains is
currently slanted towards the US organization-type domains (.com, .gov,
.edu, .org, .mil), and makes little mention of the national domains
used by the rest of the world (.uk, .fr, .ca, .br ...), and no mention
of the US equivalent (bigmon.boulder.co.us, asylum.sf.ca.us).

- List more Ethernet errors. There's currently an open bug/rfe on this,
#269907. Some, but not all of the errors mentioned have been added to
the Troubleshooting Your Ethernet Connection section (currently
in chapter 3).

- some errror messages that should perhaps be covered:

 "named:  Attempted to query myself on 111.111.111.11 as a name server for '111.111.111.IN-ADDR.ARPA'"

 "unix: rpcinfo: can't contact portmapper" 

 "unix: ec0: no carrier: check Ethernet cable"

 "unix: arp: host with ethernet address 08:00:69:06:b8:89 is still using my IP address 192.111.15.41!"

 "unix: arp: host with ethernet address 08:00:69:06:b8:89 is using my IP address 192.111.15.41!"

 "automount: /etc/auto.home: Not found"

- X.files-n-daemons.doc contains lists of networking-related files and daemons.
Maybe this information should be in an appendix--or maybe not. It used to be in
chapter 1, where it didn't seem to belong. Leaving it out entirely doesn't seem
like much of a loss, but if you want to put it in somewhere, here it is.

- Y.extra-sendmail.doc contains non-reference stuff cut from the "sendmail reference"
in appendix B. This stuff mostly duplicates information in the sendmail chapter,
08.sendmail.doc. This stuff can probably be chucked--if we decide to only 
document configmail, it can definately be chucked.
